.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 akfquiz.cgi.8
.\"
.TH "cgiquiz" 8 "4.2.0" AKFQuiz

.SS NAME
cgiquiz \- CGI program for using AKFQuiz-files

.B This manpage is under construction!

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "http://" "example.org/" "cgi-bin/cgiquiz" "/quizpath/quizfile.akfquiz"
.br
.BI "http://" "example.org/" "cgi-bin/cgiquiz" "/quizpath/"

.SH DESCRIPTION

cgiquiz lets you use a quiz from an easy to write text-file.

It needs also the files "richtig.png" and "falsch.png", and probably a given 
CSS file. These files have to be either in the same directory as the 
AKFQuiz-file, or you can use the keyword
.I baseURI
in the quiz-file.

The format of the input file is described in 
.IR akfquiz (5).

.SH INSTALLATION

You have to have access to the 
.I cgi-bin
directory of a web-server. The server must be able to run your compiled 
program.

Copy or upload the compiled program file
.I cgiquiz
into your cgi-bin directory of your web-server.
[...]

.SH USAGE

The URI is constructed by the path to the CGI-executable plus the 
relative path to the quizfile.
So, if you can access the CGI program by
.br
.I http://example.org/cgi-bin/cgiquiz
.br
and the quizfile by
.br
.I http://example.org/quizpath/quizfile.akfquiz
.br
then you can put it together like this:
.br
.BI "http://" "example.org/" "cgi-bin/cgiquiz" "/quizpath/quizfile.akfquiz"

Users may have their quiz-files in their "public-html" directory.
The URI then looks something like this:
.br
.BI "http://" "example.org/" "cgi-bin/cgiquiz" "/~user/quizfile.akfquiz"

[...]

Additionally there are also key-shortcuts defined

On PCs they are as follows:
.TP 3
Alt + R
shows the 
.IR R esult
.TP 3
Alt + N
allows you to enter anything 
.IR N ew
.P

These shortcuts are only available with newer browsers.

.SS automatic indexer

The program also includes an automatic indexer. 
That is not very flexible and puts a heavy load on the server. So you 
should avoid using it whenever possible. If you have a fixed set of 
quiz-files, write your own index.

The indexer is called when the URI ends up with a "/".
.br
For example:
.br
.I http://example.org/cgi-bin/cgiquiz/quizpath/
.br
or
.br
.I http://example.org/cgi-bin/cgiquiz/~user/
.br
You must not leave the trailing "/" away.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.SS If it encounters errors:

The program should even then always produce correct HTML code.
Error messages are written into the code. So you can easily find the 
position of the errors, by looking at the result with a browser.

If the program cannot interpret the input data at all, it outputs 
nothing, or it creates an empty file.

The HTML code that's produced by the program, should always be formally 
correct, unless you use the keyword "htmlcode:". If you use it, you're 
responsive for it yourself.

.SS Additional information:

The HTML code contains some additional information, which you cannot 
see with the browser.
The code contains the language as given with the keyword "language:".
This also has technical relevancy, so don't simply skip this keyword.
Besides of that, the author is stored in a way, that it can be easily 
found by software programs (for example search-engines). Also the 
name of the software which created the file and version is stored.

.SH SECURITY

Some limitations of the program are intentionally there for 
security-reasons: 

The CGI program doesn't allow using "/.." in the quizpath and 
the automatic indexer doesn't show any subdirectories.

The environment variable QUIZPATH as used by the other parts of AKFQuiz 
has no influence on the CGI program.

This program doesn't execute any external programs and it doesn't 
write anything to disk. It only reads the file or directory given in 
the URI.

.SH FILES

The following files must be in the same directory as the quizfile:

.IP "richtig.png, falsch.png"
needed graphic-files
.P

If you mentioned a CSS-file in the quizfile, it also has to be in the 
same directory. It might be, that this CSS-file again needs other 
files.

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2005-2006 Andreas K. Foerster
.br
.RI < akfquiz@akfoerster.de >

AKFQuiz is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

.IP contact:
mailto:akfquiz@akfoerster.de

.IP homepage:
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/

.IP examples:
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/quiz.html

.IP "publish quiz:"
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/quizupload
(no guaranty!)


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR linequiz (1)
