.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 diaquiz.1
.\"
.TH "diaquiz" 1 "4.4.0" AKFQuiz

.SH NAME
diaquiz \- Quiz-program using Xdialog

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "diaquiz [" options "] [" "input file" "]"
.br
.BI "diaquiz [" -h | --help | /? ]
.br
.BI "diaquiz " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

With this program you can play a quiz, that's in the
.IR akfquiz (5)
with a GUI surface. The program Xdialog has to be installed on your 
system.

When you enter the input file on the command-line, you may leave away 
the extension ".akfquiz". If the filename is given without a path
and the environment-variable 
.B QUIZPATH
is set, then the file is searched there.

.SH Options

.IP "-h | --help | /?"

print a short help-message

.IP -s

no sound

.IP "-d <dir>"

path to the quizfiles. 
This parameter overrides the environment variable QUIZPATH.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP QUIZPATH

searchpath to the quiz-files.
It may have more than one directory, just like the variable PATH.

If not set a reasonable default will be used. Check with
.IR "--help" .

.IP LANG

Language. 
The language-setting in the quiz-file overrides this.

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2003-2006 Andreas K. Foerster

AKFQuiz is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

http://akfquiz.nongnu.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR quizstat (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR cgiquiz (8)
.BR linequiz (1)
