.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 grquiz.1
.\"
.TH "grquiz" 1 "4.3.0" AKFQuiz

.SH NAME
grquiz \- graphical Quiz-program 

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "grquiz [" options "] [" "input file" "]"
.br
.BI "grquiz [" -h | --help | /? ]
.br
.BI "grquiz " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

With this program you can play a quiz, that's in the
.IR akfquiz (5)
with a graphical surface.

When you enter the input file on the command-line, you may leave away 
the extension ".akfquiz". If the filename is given without a path
and the environment-variable 
.B QUIZPATH
is set, then the file is searched there.

You can stop the program nearly anywhere with the key
.I q
or
.I Esc
(depends on the system).

On some systems you can switch between window-mode and fullscreen-mode 
with the keys F11 or F4 or Alt+Enter.

The prompt ">" means, that it's a question with just one possible 
answer, while the prompt ">>" indicates a question with more than one 
possible answer. In this case you have to commit your answers with the 
.IR "Enter" -key.

.SS Mouse support:

Click onto the answers with the left mouse button.
For a query with more than one possible answer you can close the query 
by pressing the right mouse button.

.SH Options

.IP "-h | --help | /?"

print a short help-message

.IP -s

no sound (no beep)

.IP "-m | --nomouse"

disable mouse support

.IP "-d <dir>"

path to the quizfiles. 
This parameter overrides the environment variable QUIZPATH.

.IP -p

run program in an endless loop (for bootdisks)

.SS Printing:

To print the questions on a form, you could use the command
.IR mkquiz (1).


.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP QUIZPATH

searchpath to the quiz-files.
It may have more than one directory, just like the variable PATH.

If not set a reasonable default will be used. Check with
.IR "--help" .

.IP LANG

Language. 
The language-setting in the quiz-file overrides this.

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2003-2006 Andreas K. Foerster
.br
.RI < akfquiz@akfoerster.de >

AKFQuiz is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

.IP contact:
mailto:akfquiz@akfoerster.de

.IP homepage:
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/

.IP examples:
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/quiz.html

.IP "publish quiz:"
http://akfoerster.de/akfquiz/quizupload
(no guaranty!)


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR cgiquiz (8)
.BR linequiz (1)
.BR gtkquizchooser (1)
