.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 quizchooser.1
.\"
.TH "gtkquizchooser" 1 "4.2.0" AKFQuiz

.SS NAME
gtkquizchooser \- file-chooser script for AKFQuiz

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "gtkquizchooser [" options "] " "program"
.br
.BI "gtkquizchooser [" --help | -h | /? ]
.br
.BI "gtkquizchooser " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

Wrapper program to start a file-chooser and then starts an AKFQuiz 
program with the selected quizfile. Gtkquizchooser is meant to be 
used in menu entries of graphical environments.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h | --help | /?"
print a short help

.IP "-d <dir> | --dir <dir>"
use only this directory 

.IP "-n | --new"
allow entering a not existing filename. The file will be created with a 
template quiz. This can be used with an editor as command.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP PATH
search path used to find the program

.IP QUIZPATH
search path to the quiz-files.
It may have more than one directory, just like the variable PATH.
The filechooser only shows the content of the first directory, but
if you enter a filename it will be searched in all directories.

If not set a reasonable default will be used.

.SS EXAMPLES

gtkquizchooser xgrquiz

gtkquizchooser xterm -e scrquiz

gtkquizchooser --new gedit

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2005-2006 Andreas K. Foerster
.br
.RI < akfquiz@akfoerster.de >

AKFQuiz is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR linequiz (1)
