.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 linequiz.1
.\"
.TH "linequiz" 1 "4.3.1" AKFQuiz

.SH NAME
linequiz \- command-line quiz-program

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "linequiz [" options "] [" "input file" "]"
.br
.BI "linequiz [" --help | -h | /? ]
.br
.BI "linequiz " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program isn't actually meant to be directly used on a normal 
computer-display, but as a backend program. You can use it for example 
to write graphical interfaces in other programming languages, you can 
easily combine it with text-to-speech software, or blind users can use 
it with a braille-line.

Each action is introduced by a fixed english keyword in capital 
letters. These can be used as hooks in other programs.

When you enter the input file on the command-line, you may leave away 
the extension ".akfquiz". If the filename is given without a path
and the environment-variable 
.B QUIZPATH
is set, then the file is searched there.

The prompt "#>" means, that it's a question with just one possible 
numeric answer, while the prompt "##>" indicates a question with more 
than one possible numeric answer. For text-string answers "$>" is used.

.SH Options

.IP "-h | --help | /?"

print a short help-message

.IP -s

no sound (no beep)

.IP "-l"

add more line-breaks (useful when used as backend)

.IP "-w 75"

set the width of the output

.IP "-d <dir>"

path to the quizfiles. 
This parameter overrides the environment variable QUIZPATH.

.IP -OEM

OEM charset (IBM850 or IBM 437) for output

.IP -latin1

Latin 1 charset (ISO 8859-1), or a compatible one for output

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP QUIZPATH

searchpath to the quiz-files.
It may have more than one directory, just like the variable PATH.

If not set a reasonable default will be used. Check with
.IR "--help" .

.IP LANG

Language. 
The language-setting in the quiz-file overrides this.


.IP MM_CHARSET

If set to
.IR "IBM850" , " CP850" , " IBM437 " or " CP437"
and the quiz-file doesn't specify an equivalent charset, then the 
Latin1->OEM converter is activated.

This variable is just supported on multi-user systems.

.SH Limits

Support of different charsets is very limited.

The program does not support the keywords
.IR rtl: " and " bidi: .

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2003-2006,2007 Andreas K. Foerster

AKFQuiz is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

http://akfquiz.nongnu.org/


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR quizstat (1)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR cgiquiz (8)
