.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 mkquiz.1
.\"
.TH "mkquiz" 1 "4.2.0" AKFQuiz

.SH NAME
mkquiz \- creates HTML file with a quiz (needs akfquiz5.js)
.br
getquiz \- copy the files needed for the output into the current directory

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "mkquiz [" "options" "] [" "quiz-files" "]"
.br
.BI "mkquiz [" --help | -h | /? ]
.br
.BI "mkquiz " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

Mkquiz creates a HTML file with a quiz from easy to write text-files.

This HTML files then need also the script "akfquiz5.js" as well as the 
files "leer.png", "richtig.png" and "falsch.png", and probably a given 
CSS file. These files have to be in the same directory as the HTML 
files, or the path may be given with the keyword
.IR baseURI: .

The format of the input data is described in 
.IR akfquiz (5).

The filenames for the output files are deduced from the filenames of 
the input files.

If mkquiz is called without filenames and without the option 
.IR -a " or " --auto ,
it reads from standard input and writes to standard output.

.SH USAGE

.SS OPTIONS

.IP "-o <dir> | --out <dir>"
directory for the output files

.IP "-a | --auto"
process all quiz-files in the current directory

.IP "-i | --index"
write an index.html with all files processed

.RE
When you enter input files on the command-line, you may leave away 
the extension ".akfquiz" or ".aqz".

.SS Usage of the created HTML-file:

It is an HTML-file, which includes a JavaScript-file. So the usage is 
mostly dependent on the browser. On most browsers you can use the 
buttons at the end by "clicking" with a mouse or an other device on 
it. Besides of that on most browsers you can chose the elements with 
the Tab-key and activate them by pressing either the space-key or the 
enter-key.

Additionally there are also key-shortcuts defined in the HTML-file

On PCs they are as follows:
.TP 3
Alt + R
shows the 
.IR R esult
.TP 3
Alt + S
shows the 
.IR S olution
.TP 3
Alt + N
allows you to enter anything 
.IR N ew
.P

These shortcuts are only available with newer browsers.

.SS Printing:

To print a quiz on a printer, please use the HTML-file, not the 
input-file. The HTML-file and the CSS-files contain special code for 
printing. So it's not simply the same as what you see on the screen.

If you want to print a page with the solution, then press the button
.IR Solution
in the browser and print it again.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.SS If it encounters errors:

The program mkquiz should even then always produce correct HTML code.
Error messages are written into the code. So you can easily find the 
position of the errors, by looking at the result with a browser.

If the program cannot interpret the input data at all, it outputs 
nothing, or it creates an empty file.

The HTML code, that's produced by the program, should always be formally 
correct, unless you use the keyword "htmlcode:". If you use it, you're 
responsive for it yourself.

.SS Additional information:

The HTML code contains some additional information, which you cannot 
see with the browser.
The code contains the language as given with the keyword "language:".
This also has technical relevancy, so don't simply skip this keyword.
Besides of that, the author is stored in a way, that it can be easily 
found by software programs (for example search-engines). Also the 
name of the software which created the file and version is stored.

.SH BUGS

The JavaScript 
.I akfquiz5.js 
shows no graphic for "multi:"-questions.

.SH FILES

The following files must be in the same directory as the created 
HTML-file:

.IP akfquiz5.js
JavaScript-file - needed by the HTML-file

.IP "leer.png, richtig.png, falsch.png"
needed graphic-files
.P

If you mentioned a CSS-file in the AKFQuiz-file, it also has to be in the 
same directory. It might be, that this CSS-file again needs other 
files.

.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2003-2006 Andreas K. Foerster

AKFQuiz is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

http://akfquiz.nongnu.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR scrquiz (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR cgiquiz (8)
.BR linequiz (1)
