.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tlatin1 scrquiz.1
.\"
.TH "scrquiz" 1 "4.3.1" AKFQuiz

.SH NAME
scrquiz \- Quiz-program for the text-terminal or xterm

.SH SYNTAX
.BI "scrquiz [" options "] [" "input file" "]"
.br
.BI "scrquiz [" --help | -h | /? ]
.br
.BI "scrquiz " --version

.SH DESCRIPTION

With this program you can play a quiz, that's in the
.IR akfquiz (5)
format on the text-terminal or xterm.

When you enter the input file on the command-line, you may leave away 
the extension ".akfquiz". If the filename is given without a path
and the environment-variable 
.B QUIZPATH
is set, then the file is searched there.

You can stop the program nearly anywhere with the key
.IR Esc .

The prompt ">" means, that it's a question with just one possible 
answer, while the prompt ">>" indicates a question with more than one 
possible answer. In this case you have to commit your answers with the 
.IR "Enter" -key.

.SH Options

.IP "-h | --help | /?"

print a short help-message

.IP -s

no sound (no beep)

.IP "-d <dir>"

path to the quizfiles. 
This parameter overrides the environment variable QUIZPATH.

.IP -p

run program in an endless loop (for boot-disks)

.IP -OEM

Display has OEM charset (IBM850 or IBM 437)

.IP -latin1

Display has Latin 1 charset (ISO 8859-1), or a compatible one

.SS Printing:

To print the questions on a form, you could use the command
.IR mkquiz (1).

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP QUIZPATH

searchpath to the quiz-files. 
It may have more than one directory, just like the variable PATH.

If not set a reasonable default will be used. Check with
.IR "--help" .

.IP LANG

Language. 
The language-setting in the quiz-file overrides this.
This variable is also used to detect the charset.


.IP MM_CHARSET

If set to
.IR "UTF-8" , " IBM850" , " CP850" , " IBM437 " or " CP437"
and the quiz-file doesn't specify an equivalent charset, then a 
converter is activated.

This variable is just supported on multi-user systems.

.SH Limits

Support of different charsets is very limited.

The program does not support the keywords
.IR rtl: " and " bidi: .

Changing the window size after the start of the program is not 
supported.


.SH LICENSE

Copyright \(co 2003-2006,2007 Andreas K. Foerster

AKFQuiz is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

AKFQuiz is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.


.SH INTERNET

http://akfquiz.nongnu.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR akfquiz (5)
.BR quizstat (1)
.BR grquiz (1)
.BR mkquiz (1)
.BR cgiquiz (8)
.BR diaquiz (1)
.BR linequiz (1)
